In this video we will learn about static and dynamic memory allocation.
So these are the topics that I'm going to cover in this video I discuss about the memory how the memories
utilize how it looks like.
Then we will see how our program uses them in memory how the program will utilize that memory.
Then we'll see static memory allocation that static allocation or dynamic amplification.
So these are the topics we discuss.
Let us start by studying something about mean memory.
Let us discuss static versus dynamic memory allocation.
So for that we should understand memory.
Suppose this blob shows a memory does a memory so the memory is divided and goes smaller addressable
unit that is called s byte so memory is divided into bytes.
So these boxes these checkboxes let us assume those are bytes and then type memory a small picture have
taken every bite is having its address.
Let us see the address of this is 0 and this is 1.
This is 2 3 4 5 and this will be six and seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen goes on.
So I'm starting from the bottom one day but it is obvious that diagram I have drawn over to diminish
them but the addresses are single dimension versus linear guesses.
So I guess we'll have just one value not like a card near system X come away it doesn't have a single
value so this is a linear after this by this 5 then this is 6 and 7 and so on.
So it depends on the size of the memory every byte will hybrids on case.
So if I take a bigger slice of memory let's to say this a memory and then disconnect most byte addresses
zero.
So let us assume that the second most bytes addresses 6 5 5 3 5 so put them 0 2 6 5 5 3 5 makes 6 5
5 3 6.
So put the number of bytes on 6 5 5 3 6.
This is nothing but 64 in 2 1 0 2 food.
So this is 64 kilobytes.
So in my entire discussion for the entire discussion of this subject I'll be assuming that the size
of the main memory is 64 kilobytes.
Okay let us make this assumption.
Disabled memory can be anything not as we are using memory in jeebies like 4G BGP memory we are using
but to understand we have to take a small part of me in memory so I'm digging 64 kilobytes of memory
so far so this is zero bytes and the loss addresses 6 5 5 3 5.
So total 6 5 5 3 6.
That is 60 40 into ones ever before sort of 64 kilobytes.
So this mean memories of 64 kilobytes every byte is having its address like how I have shown you here
in the computers.
If you have larger the size of ram that is for G.B. or LGB that entire memory is not used as a single
unit but it is divided.
It is divided and go manageable pieces that are called a segment unusually the size of a segment will
be 64 kilobytes.
So I'm talking about a segment.
So in our discussion all of us will assume that the size of a lot of memory is 64 give away.
That if we are talking about a segment Now next we have to understand how our program uses mean memory.
Now let us see how our program utilizes mean memory.
This picture shows this Block and Block from this corner of this corner as a mean memory.
Assume that this byte addresses a zeal discovered most by the 6 6 5 5 3 5 either said will be taking
one segment of memory and studying it.
So does that mean memory is divided into three sections and used by a program by liberal defections
sections one of this section where the program resides is called The Good section and one under the
section.
Usually this is the section.
This portion is called Stack and this remaining portion is called as heap but we just change the site
because it is easy for me to discuss who should go.
This bill shouldn't stack and this portion as heap so a program uses the main memory by dividing into
three sections called Section and the stack and a heap I'm trying stack at this place.
Now I'll explain how a program uses these three sections so let let's see see here I have a program
file on the hardness if I want to run this program.
So this program the machine code of the program forces should be brought inside the main memory so it
is brought inside the code section so literacy.
This is a program or the machine code of a program.
So the 80 of that is occupied by the program in the main memory.
That section is called as section that ought to be fixed.
It depends on the size of program.
So does the code section 80 of the machine called the full program is loaded.
No once it is loaded the CPE will start executing the program and this program will utilize the remaining
memory as a divided in go stock and a heap.
Now let us learn how this stock and heap works.
So I will take the example code and I will show you how stock memory is used and a whole heap memory
is used.
I think of the example code here.
See does my main function is having two variables.
One is of type Integer the other one is off type float.
Now I will assume here listen carefully I'm assuming here that integer takes two bytes and fluid picks
for two bytes in C C++ programming.
Number of bytes taken by integer depends on the compiler and the operating system and the hardware it
depends on various things.
So he say mostly depends on the compiler.
So in digital media for bytes also two bytes also OK so two bites is easy for explanation.
So I'm picking your ass two bites.
If you take that we'll see which is a 16 bit compiler.
It takes the weights for integer.
Usually if you use a def stored your code blocks are anything then integer will take 40 bytes in that
time.
So it's a tell to read compiler.
So in this you can bet the it's also for whites also in C C++ but I'm assuming India extra whites and
floor takes 4 bytes.
Now let us come back to the point that we were discussing we were discussing how this heat memory and
the sad memories used by the program Ferdowsi I have these two variables to white sand forward by a
on six bytes of memory in the program it is certain that it needs six bytes so that six base of memory
is located inside the stack inside the stack.
Let us shoot somebody early so this is two wives and this is sorted bytes.
So these six by inside a given to the program.
And this is nothing but a main function.
I'm sure it would be mean function.
So this block of memory that belongs to the main function is called on stack of frame off a main function
or it is also called as activation regard of mean function activation record of main function.
So one thing we learn that whatever the variables you declare inside your program or inside a function
the memory for those variables will be created inside the stock.
This portion is a stock.
So I look at it inside the stack.
So the portion of memory that is given to the function is called as activation the part of that function.
So how the memory is a look at it inside the stock it depends whatever the variables you have inside
a function.
So the size of the memory required by a function was decided at company time when the compiler will
see that this leads to some bytes and this needs some.
So it will beforehand decide that this function need so much memory and that memory is obtained once
the programs start executing it is open inside the stack.
So he said this is static memory allocation.
What is the static here.
How many bytes of memory is required by this function was it decided to combine time.
So it is static so what is static.
The size of the memory is a static value that was decided by the time so when everything is done that
come by a day or two before time is called static.
So this memory should have static.